*********************
Validate cDNA display
*********************
I want to see whether or not I can successfully attach a translated protein to 
the cDNA encoding it.  This is the first step in doing cDNA-display-based 
DNA-binding assays.  My goal is to run a gel where both the protein and the 
cDNA can be seen in different channels, and to show that the two bands are 
superimposed.  As a negative control, I can express the protein without the 
linker.  I'll mostly be following the cDNA-display protocol from 
[Naimudden2016]_, with some PURExpress-specific details taken from 
[Barendt2013]_.

.. toctree::
   :glob:
   :hidden:

   /20190430_create_minimal_cloning_vector/*
   /20191004_linearize_cdna_display_gene/*
   /20191216_optimize_mrna_transcription/*
   /20191209_optimize_linker_n_ligation/*

Considerations
==============

Visualization
-------------
To see whether or not CIS-display was working, I expressed GFP using DNA 
labeled with Cy5, so I could simultaneously visualize both molecules.  See 
:expt:`20190723_confirm_cis_display_with_fluorescent_protein` for details.  To 
see whether or not cDNA display is working, I'll have to do things a little 
differently, because the linker I ordered is labeled with FITC.  This means 
that I have to visualize the protein in the Cy5 channel.  I thought of a few 
ways to do this.  Of these ideas, I think the fluorescent protein stain seems 
the most promising:

- Use a fluorescent protein stain.
  
   - Because cDNA display creates a covalent attachment, I should be able to 
     use SDS-PAGE to see whether or not the attachment was formed.

   - Because SDS-PAGE is so much higher resolution than native PAGE, I will 
     probably be able to see a distinct band for my product even if I just 
     stain all proteins.  This would remove the need to do any purification 
     steps (although such steps would still give nicer data).

   - Because I wouldn't have to use a fluorescent protein, I could just use my 
     Zn-finger, which would make my result more relevant to the actual binding 
     assay I want to perform.

   - While I could use Coomassie, a fluorescent stain will be more sensitive, 
     and will allow me to create nice multichannel images using the gel 
     imager.
     
   - A brochure for the :download:`Sapphire imager <sapphire_brochure.pdf>` 
     claims that SYPRO-Ruby can be visualized using the Cy5 laser.  I'm a 
     little skeptical because SYPRO-Ruby doesn't appear to be excited by 658 nm 
     light, but I trust the brochure enough to give it a try.
     
   - SYPRO-Ruby might overlap with the GFP channel.  It will be almost 
     maximally excited by the 488 nm laser, but it shouldn't emit in the 
     507-529 nm band.  If there is cross-talk, I might also try SYPRO-Ruby, or 
     maybe the Typhoon will have better laser/filter combinations.

- Use a near-IR fluorescent protein:

   - I don't want to use an RFP, because most RFPs have some overlap with the 
     GFP channel.  Even if the overlap is small, it makes the results very 
     difficult to interpret.

   - Near-IR proteins all seem to require the biliverdin cofactor.  This could 
     cause issues with background fluorescence or getting the protein to fold, 
     although most likely it would be fine.

   - I would need to continue using native gels, so that the fluorescent 
     protein would remain folded.

- Western blot

   - Kinda the best of both worlds, in that I can run an SDS-PAGE gel and then 
     visualize just my protein of interest.

   - I'd probably just use an epitope tag to find my protein, which I could 
     possibly also use for purification (see below).

   - I haven't done a lot of Westerns before, so I'd have to learn how to do 
     that.  Could be a bit of a learning curve, but it'd also be a good 
     technique to know.

- Order a new linker with Cy5 instead of FITC.

   - This would be expensive.

   - But it would make it possible to visualize the mRNA/linker conjugation 
     using SYBR gold.

   - But then I couldn't use SYPRO-Ruby, which could be really nice.

   - If I were to do this, though, I should also think about ordering the 5' 
     end phosphorlyated.  That would let me skip the phosphorylation step, and 
     would only improve efficiency.

Purification tags
-----------------
Since I'm planning to do SDS-PAGE, it shouldn't be absolutely necessary to 
purify my proteins.  But I am worried about getting partially transcribed 
products due to puromycin being present in the reaction.  To account for this, 
I'd like to have a C-terminal tag I can use to purify fully-translated 
products.  

Note that this C-terminal tag will really be an internal tag, because the 
puromycin linker will be attached to the C-terminus.  This limits the selection 
of tags I can use.  I consulted the list of affinity tags compiled by 
[Kimple2013]_ to find the best candidates.

- His-tag: [Naimudden2016]_ used a C-terminal His-tag (flanked by GGGS motifs 
  on either side) and seemed to be able to successfully purify protein, even 
  though [Kimple2013]_ claims that His-tag are not internal tags (although I 
  don't see why they would need to be at either terminus to coordinate Ni).  Of 
  course, all of the proteins in the PURExpress reaction are also His-tagged, 
  but I could always use a 100 kDa spin-filter get rid of most of them 
  (although not any that might run near my protein in a gel).

- Strep-tag: I don't really have any reason to believe that this would work 
  internally, except that the Twin Strep-tag has one Strep-tag that's basically 
  internal, and it still seems to contribute something to binding.  Plus I 
  already have all the beads and buffers, so I might as well try it.

- HA-tag, Myc-tag: These are two common epitope tags that are considered by 
  [Kimple2013]_ to be internal tags.  Antibody purifications are considered to 
  give low yields, but I think they're worth trying if the above tags don't 
  work.

C-terminus
----------
[Naimudden2016]_ calls for the following sequence elements C-terminal of the 
gene of interest:

- 2x GGGS
- His-tag
- 1x GGGS
- Y-tag

I'm curious if these C-terminal elements can't be improved.

- Stop codon with Î”RF PURExpress

   - The idea with using a stop codon is that, if there are no release factors 
     in the reaction, the ribosome will stall on the stop codon, which will the 
     puromycin a chance to react.

   - I might even be able to subsequently add release factors to help release 
     the puromycin-linked protein from the ribosome.  None of the papers I've 
     read have seemed to say much about releasing from the ribosome, so maybe I 
     don't need to worry about it.  But if it turns out to be a problem, this 
     could be a solution.

   - Using a stop codon would require me to use PURExpress, because any lysate 
     would include release factors.

   - A stop codon would make the C-terminus more consistent.  Currently I 
     believe that translation will stop when the ribosome encounters the 
     double-stranded region where Linker-N is bound, but it's also possible 
     that Linker-N itself will be translated (it's mostly Gly).  A stop codon 
     would make it more clear where translation stops.  
     
     Unfortunately, though, I don't really have a way of knowing how consistent 
     the C-terminus is.  So I won't know if this is really a problem, or if a 
     stop codon even does anything to help.  If I really wanted to know this, 
     I'd probably have to do mass spec.

   - A stop codon would also enable the use of 3' barcodes.  See 
     :expt:`20190403_validate_cdna_display`.

   - The poly-A arm supporting the puromycin in Linker-N is optimized for use 
     without a stop codon.  Granted, it's also optimized for use with 
     eukaryotic ribosomes, which are slightly bigger than bacterial ones.  
     Still, adding a stop codon would move the puromycin further from the 
     A-site, which may interfere with the ability of puromycin to attack the 
     stalled peptide.

  All told, using a stop codon could be a good thing or a bad thing.  It's not 
  something that [Naimudden2016]_ would've tried, because they were using 
  rabbit reticulocyte lysate.  So I think it's worth trying, but I should get 
  the system working first without it.

- Remove or shorten the GGGS linkers

   - First of all, [Naimudden2016]_ used GGGS linkers, while most everyone else 
     uses GGGGS (4 Gly instead of 3).  It probably doesn't matter, but I'm 
     tempted to use the more canonical (longer) linkers.

   - I'm skeptical that 2 repeats of the Gly/Ser linker are needed before the 
     His-tag.  After all, the His-tag and the second linker can be thought of 
     as one big linker between the protein and the mRNA/cDNA.  Again, though, 
     this probably doesn't matter too much.

Variable transcript length
--------------------------
As described very clearly by [Gholamalipour2018]_, T7 polymerase can add a 
variable number of extra nucleotides to the end of transcripts.  This is caused 
by the transcripts folding on themselves and priming additional transcription.   
This phenomenon occurs more readily when the concentration of RNA is high (as 
in IVT reactions), and in these conditions [Gholamalipour2018]_ show that the 
correct-length transcripts can become a minor product.

It's possible that this extra transcription could interfere with the ligating 
of Linker-N to the 3' end of the transcript.  However, the actual Y-tag 
sequence seems like it would be fairly resilient to this effect, because it it 
mostly G and therefore has poor self-complementarity.  Also, [Naimudden2016]_ 
reported good ligation yields, and they didn't mention this issue at all.  So 
I'm not going to worry about this for now, but I wanted to at least put my 
thoughts down.

.. _validate_cdna_display_ligation:

Ligation
--------
The protocol given by [Naimudden2016]_ for ligating the linker to the 
transcribed RNA has some ambiguities:

- The buffer for resuspending the linker is not specified.  EB is probably 
  reasonable, though.

   - The "Certificate of Analysis" from Midlands CRC (which is saved in the 
     binder) specifies that the oligos should be resuspended in a "sterile 
     buffer with pH ranging from 5--9" and stored at -20Â°C.  So EB will be 
     fine.

- The buffer for the annealing and ligation reactions is not specified.

   - T4 PNK (NEB M0201) requires 1x T4 *DNA ligase* buffer:
     
      - 50 mM Tris-HCl
      - 10 mM MgClâ‚‚
      - 10 mM DTT
      - 1 mM ATP
      - pH 7.5 @ 25Â°C
        
   - T4 PNK (NEB M0201) can also be used with T4 PNK buffer, provided that ATP 
     is also added:
     
      - 70 mM Tris-HCl
      - 10 mM MgClâ‚‚
      - 5 mM DTT
      - pH 7.6 @ 25Â°C

   - T4 RNA ligase (Takara 2050A) conveniently requires almost the same buffer 
     as T4 PNK:
     
      - 50 mM Tris-HCl
      - 10 mM MgClâ‚‚
      - 10 mM DTT
      - 1 mM ATP
      - 0.01% BSA (recommended)
      - pH 7.5 @ 25Â°C

   - Considerations in choosing which buffer to use:

      - Salt is needed for annealing, but is inhibitory for phosphorylation.

         - The annealing protocols I found (discussed below) all call for 
           50--150 mM salt, typically NaCl.  This makes sense to me, because 
           the salt presumably helps the two polar molecules come together.

         - 150 mM NaCl inhibits 50% of T4 PNK activity:
           https://www.neb.com/faqs/2011/11/22/what-factors-can-cause-incomplete-phosphorylation-when-using-t4-polynucleotide-kinase

         - T4 RNA ligase is inhibited by metal chelators, so I should not use any 
           buffers with EDTA.  But NaCl is not mentioned as an inhibitor.

      - ATP

         - At first, I was worried that if I added ATP before the annealing 
           step, it would break down during the extended high-temperature 
           incubation.  But it occurs to me that the NTPs in PCR are stable 
           after similar incubations at similar temperatures, so probably I 
           don't need to worry about this.

   - Strategies:

      - Phosphorylate the DNA linker in advance, then add as much salt as I 
        want to the annealing reaction.

      - Drop dialysis after annealing to remove salt.

      - Do the annealing reaction in a small volume (e.g. 5 ÂµL), then dilute 
        for the ligation reaction (e.g. to 50 ÂµL) to reduce the salt to a 
        non-inhibitory level.

   .. update:: 2019/12/11

      [Naimudden2011]_ clarifies that "mRNA was annealed to the biotinylated 
      puromycin-linker DNA (1:1 ratio) via the Y-tag sequence in 1Ã— ligase 
      buffer (Takara, Kyoto, Japan)..."  So they added ATP before the annealing 
      gradient, and didn't add any salt for the annealing.  It seemed to work 
      fine for them though, so maybe I can just do this moving forward.

- The volume of the annealing and ligation reactions is subtly implied, I 
  think.  It is specified that 50 pmol of mRNA and linker-N are added to the 
  reaction.  It is later specified that the mRNA/linker conjugates are added to 
  the IVTT reaction at a concentration of 100 nM.  50 pmol at 100 nM would 
  correspond to a volume of 500 ÂµL.  That's probably not right, though.  
  Perhaps 100 nM is a final concentration, or not all of the conjugate is added 
  to the IVT reaction.

  [Naimudden2011]_ has a little more detail.  First, the mRNA/linker conjugate 
  is purified using an RNeasy kit after ligation.  Then 3-5 pmol of the 
  conjugate are translated in a 25 ÂµL retic lysate reaction.  The manual for 
  that kit calls for up to 5.75 ÂµL of RNA per 25 ÂµL reaction, so after 
  purification the concentration is about 1 pmol/ÂµL (1 ÂµM).

  Because of the RNeasy step, this doesn't say anything about the volume of the 
  ligation reaction.  Annealing supposed works best with high concentrations of 
  oligos.  Ligation might be better at lower concentrations, to avoid ligations 
  between mRNA molecules.  If that's a problem, though, I could avoid it 
  entirely by phosphorylating the DNA linker and dephosphorylating the mRNA.  
  Or in the future, ordering a phosphorylated linker.  For now, I'll just do 
  something reasonable like 10 ÂµL.

- "mRNAs were annealed to linker-N by heating at 94Â°C and gradient-cooling to 
  4Â°C."

   - The duration of the gradient cooling is not specified.

   - `This protocol 
     <https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/technical-documents/protocols/biology/annealing-oligos.html>` 
     from Sigma specifies:
      
      - Thermocycler protocol:

         - 95Â°C for 2 min
         - 95Â°Câ†’25Â°C over 45 min.
         - Hold at 4Â°C

      - Buffer:

        - 10 mM Tris
        - 50 mM NaCl
        - 1 mM EDTA

      - Oligo concentration: 50 ÂµM as an example, didn't seem like strict 
        requirement.

   - `This protocol 
     <https://www.idtdna.com/pages/education/decoded/article/annealing-oligonucleotides>` 
     from IDT specifies:

      - 94Â°C for 2 min, the "gradually" cool.  Specific cooling time not given, 
        but mentions that you can just take the reaction out of a heat block 
        and leave on the bench.

      - Buffer: "This provides a buffering environment and the salt is 
        necessary for oligonucleotide hybridization."  Available for purchase 
        from IDT.

         - 100 mM KOAc
         - 30 mM HEPES
         - pH 7.5

      - Oligo concentration: 10--100 ÂµM

   - `This protocol 
     <https://tools.thermofisher.com/content/sfs/brochures/TR0045-Anneal-oligos.pdf>` 
     from Thermo specifies:

      - Thermocycler protocol:

         - 95Â°C for 5 min
         - 95Â°Câ†’25Â°C over 70 min (1Â°C/min)
         - Hold at 4Â°C

      - Alternative thermocycler protocol; pause at annealing temperatuer (Ta): 

         - 95Â°C for 5 min
         - 95Â°Câ†’Ta at 1Â°C/min
         - Ta for 30 min
         - Taâ†’25Â°C at 1Â°C/min
         - Hold at 4Â°C

      - Buffer: "Tris or phosphate buffer containing salt; for example, 10 mM 
        Tris, 1 mM EDTA, 50 mM NaCl (pH 8.0) or 100 mM sodium phosphate, 150 mM 
        NaCl, 1 mM EDTA (pH 7.5)"

      - Oligo concentration: 1 pmol/ÂµL (1 ÂµM)

   - It seems like it doesn't matter too much.  I'd rather use a thermocycler, 
     because that seems much more reproducible.  The 45 minute protocol is 
     probably fine.

- "Ligation was performed by the addition of 3 U T4 Kinase and 20 U of T4 RNA 
  ligase at 25Â°C for 10, 20, and 40 min."

   - The Results section clarifies that they tried 10, 20, and 40 min, and 
     found that the reaction was complete after 10 min.  So I should just 
     incubate for 10 min.

   
Results
=======

Order linker-N
--------------
I was able to order the DNA linker described in [Naimudden2016]_ from 
MidlandCRC.  See attached quote:

:download:`quotes/midland_20190416_63451.pdf`

