**************************
Validate exonuclease assay
**************************

I want to show that the nuclease assay works in principle---i.e. that Zif268 
binding can protect the barcode from digestion---and establish some reasonable 
parameters before trying all the combinations of Zif268 mutants, target sites, 
N/C-terminal barcodes, etc. that I have cloned.

Considerations
==============

Nuclease
--------
NEB recommends BAL-31 for progressively shortening dsDNA.  

Most exonucleases act on only one strand (e.g. 5'→3' or vice versa), which 
means I would need to use two to digest both strands.  I also need to be 
careful to avoid exonucleases that remove oligos, because they may be able to 
skip over a small DNA binding protein.

Capped Ends
-----------
2019/12/11:

It would be convenient if I could block nuclease activity---specifically Bal-31 
activity---on both ends of a DNA molecule.  This ability may not be necessary 
for the ultimate protection assay, but it may also be helpful.  At the very 
least it would help make good controls.  There are a few ways to potentially 
block BAL-31:

- Mechanism of BAL-31:

   - [Zhou1990]_ argues that BAL-31 acts "through a 3′ → 5′-directed 
     exonuclease activity in conjunction with an endonuclease activity against 
     the 5′-terminated single-stranded tails generated by the exonuclease 
     activity. No evidence for a 5′ → 3′ mode of exonuclease action was seen."

- Use TelN to create linear DNA with covalently capped ends. 
  
   - I don't know for sure that the capped ends will inhibit nuclease activity, 
     but it seems reasonable.

- Phosphorothioate nucleotides (S-oligo):

   - https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/technical-documents/articles/biology/phosphorothioates.html

   - Nucleotides with SPO₃ instead of PO₄ between the sugars in the backbone.

   - These nucleotides are sold by IDT and are considered to resist nuclease 
     degradation.

   - I have not able to find a report of BAL-31 specifically being inhibited by 
     S-oligos.
     
   - Given that BAL-31 is believed to begin by acting as a 3' exonuclease, it 
     is probably necessary to have 3' S-oligos.  Unfortunately, Using these 
     oligos for PCR would give 5' S-oligos...

   - [Crinelli2002]_ "However, largely because of their polyanionic nature, 
     phosphorothioates cause non-specific protein binding, with consequent 
     sequence-independent effects that limit many applications [13-15].

- Locked nucleic acids (LNAs):

   - Similar conceptually to S-oligos.

   - [Crinelli2002]_ tests BAL-31 specifically.  Strangely, both terminal and 
     internal LNAs are needed to confer substantial resistance to BAL-31.  This 
     makes me not confident that I'll be able to get this to work robustly for 
     me.

- Cross-linking

   - Psoralen-induced crosslinks are known to inhibit BAL-31 [Putney1981]_.

   - Could order PCR primers that contain crosslinking groups.  Would need to 
     find a UV lamp though, and wouldn't be sure of yield.

Salt concentration
------------------
2019/12/12:

I just noticed that 1x BAL-31 reaction buffer 600 mM salt.  That's a lot, and 
it made me think about the effect of salt on DNA binding and whether I'll be 
able to control the salt concentration (which is the point of doing an in vitro 
assay).

According to [Ando2010]_ (via bionumbers), the salt concentration in cells is 
150 mM.  But this is vague with regard to the type of cell and salt, and is not 
a primary reference.  [Dick1978]_ somehow measured ion concentrations in toad 
oocytes, and reported concentrations of 10 mM Na, 266 mM K, and 91 mM Cl in the 
nucleus (the cytoplasm had only 70 mM K but similar Na and Cl).  From this, I 
think it's reasonable to assume a salt concentration in the vicinity of 150 mM.  
For comparison, most of the Zn-finger binding buffers I've found have either 
NaCl or KCl in the range of 50--150 mM.

The NEB 1x BAL-31 buffer is almost identical to that used by [Gray1975]_, the 
first paper characterizing BAL-31.  [Gray1975]_ does not explain the reason for 
using 600 mM NaCl, although they do show that the enzyme can tolerate up to 
3.4M NaCl, 4.05M CsCl, or 5% SDS.  [Gray1978]_ reduces [NaCl] to 200 mM for 
better compatibility with subsequent restriction digests, and that seems to 
work fine.  All in all, it's not clear why 600 mM NaCl is used in the BAL-31 
buffer, but it seems like BAL-31 is not salt sensitive and can probably be used 
at physiological salinity.

.. datatable:: neb_bal31_buffer.csv

   NEB BAL-31 reaction buffer.

Binding buffer
--------------
2019/12/12:

In my real assay, I will want full control of the buffer for the binding 
reactions.  Ideally that will mean purifying the protein/DNA fusions after 
expression, but since I've had a lot of trouble with that, diluting the 
expression reaction 10x into the binding reaction [Lam2011]_ will probably be 
good enough.

Below is a list of the components I believe should go in the binding buffer:

.. datatable:: binding_buffer.csv

   Zn-finger binding buffer.

Other Zn-finger binding studies have used Tris buffers, but phosphate buffers 
are recommended for use with Ni-NTA (which may or may not be relevant): 
:download:`ni_nta_reagent_compatibility.pdf`

Note that this buffer has several differences from the NEB BAL-31 buffer.  I 
don't think any of the differences will significantly affect BAL-31 function, 
though:

- 4x less NaCl: As discussed above, BAL-31 does not seem to require high salt.
- No EDTA: EDTA would chelate the Zn needed by the Zn-fingers.  Usually EDTA is 
  not needed for things to work, it's just added to inhibit unwanted nuclease 
  activity.
- 6x stronger buffer, and slightly different pH.  The buffer strength matters 
  if multiple buffers are being mixed, but I don't think it typically has any 
  effect on protein function.  I could be wrong about that, though.


Results
=======

TelN & BAL-31 --- 2019/11/15
----------------------------
.. protocol:: 20191115_phenol_chloroform_extraction.txt 20191115_pcr.txt 

   See binder for TelN digestion (2019/11/12), BAL-31 digestion, E-gel 
   parameters, and discussion of how to clean up the reaction.

.. figure:: 20191115_bal31_blunt_vs_capped.svg

   Note that I enhanced the contrast of the lanes with DNA.

EcoRV & BAL-31 --- 2019/12/11
-----------------------------
.. protocol:: 20191211_dilute_amplicons.txt

   - Digest plasmid with EcoRV: See binder, 12/11/19

   ***


To-do
=====
- Repeat TelN digestion to confirm that it doesn't offer protection.

- Prepare EcoRV digested p59, to optimize time of nuclease treatment (75 nM 
  DNA).
